Add proposal to introduce `toXml` and `fromXml` APIs (#432)
ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-xmldata: docs/proposals/toXml_fromXml_apis.md

# Proposal: Introduce APIs to perform conversions between the Map/Ballerina record and XML

_Owners_: @daneshk @kalaiyarasiganeshalingam  
_Reviewers_: @daneshk  
_Created_: 2022/06/17   
_Updated_: 2022/06/17  
_Issues_: [#2819](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues/2819)

## Summary
The Ballerina Xmldata module doesn't have any API to convert the Ballerina Record/Map to XML and XML to map. 
So, this proposal introduces a new `fromXml` API to convert the XML data to Record/Map and `toXml` API to convert the Record/Map to XML.

## Goals
Provide a way to perform conversions between XML and Record/Map.

## Motivation
At the moment, users have to write their own custom implementation to perform conversions between Ballerina records/Map to XML.

> Therefore, It would be easy for them if we provided APIs to convert.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, It would be easier for them if we provided APIs to convert.
```

Note: This feature(fromRecord()) is also required by the connector team. When they write a connector for the SOAP backend service(e.g Netsuite Connector),
they need to convert the Ballerina record value to XML payload. As mentioned in the summary, we don't have a way to do this conversion. 

> They are planning to remove their custom implementation and use `xmldata` module, once we have this feature. As per the [discussion](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-standard-library/issues/2819), 

Reviewer: Do we need to include these internal details?

Reviewer 2: Shall we reword this as follows,

When writing a Ballerina connector for a SOAP backend service like Netsuite connector, we need to convert the Ballerina record to XML and vice versa. In Ballerina, we don't have a standard way of converting Ballerina records to XML and followed our own custom logic in each connector. From this feature, we are trying to standardize the conversion and provide an easier way for conversions than reimplementing the logic.

we are planning to introduce `fromXml` API for their requirement which is an improved API from `fromRecord`. 
This will be used to do the conversion of the Ballerina record|map data to XML.

## Description

### APIs definition:

```ballerina
# Converts an XML to its `Map` or `Record` representation.

> # The namespaces and attributes will not be considered a special case.

Reviewer 2: what does this mean?

Author: `fromXml` API considers namespace and attribute and treats them as special cases, but this API doesn't treat them as special cases.

#
# + xmlValue - The XML source to be converted to a given target type
# + returnType - The `typedesc` of the `map<anydata>` that should be returned as a result
# + return - The given target type representation of the given XML on success,
# else returns an `xmldata:Error`
public isolated function fromXml(xml xmlValue, typedesc<(map<anydata>)> returnType = <>) returns returnType|Error;
```

```ballerina
# Converts a `Map` or `Record` representation to its XML representation.

> # The record has annotations to configure namespaces and attributes,  but others don't have these.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Attribute and Namespace annotations provided in the Ballerina record definition get into account when converting to XML.
```

#
# + mapValue - The `Map` or `Record` representation source to be converted to XML
# + return - XML representation of the given source if the source is

> # successfully converted or else an `xmldata:Error`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# successfully converted or else, an `xmldata:Error`
```

public isolated function toXml(map<anydata> mapValue) returns xml|Error;
```

### Record Annotation Definitions:

```ballerina

> # Defines the new name of the name.

Reviewer: Is it "Defines the new name"?

Reviewer 2: `Defines the XML element name which matches the record field. The default value is the record field name.`

#

> # + value - The value of the new name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# + value - The XML element name```

public type NameConfig record {|
    string value;
|};
```

```ballerina

> # The annotation is used to specify the new name of the existing record name or field name according to the XML format.
> public annotation NameConfig Name on type, record field;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# The Annotation is used to specify which XML element matches the record field.
public annotation NameConfig Name on type, record field;

```

# Defines the namespace of the XML element
#
# + prefix - The value of the prefix of the namespace
# + uri - The value of the URI of the namespace
public type NamespaceConfig record {|
    string prefix;
    string uri?;
|};

# The annotation is used to specify the namespace's prefix and URI of the XML element.
public annotation NamespaceConfig Namespace on type, record field;
```

```ballerina
# The annotation is used to denote the field that is considered an attribute.
public annotation Attribute on record field;
```
### Rules for performing conversions between Map record and XML

> The same rules of conversion between JSON and XML are used. But, this doesn't consider the attributes and namespaces a special case.

Reviewer 2: No. we need to specifically mention, that we are following OpenAPI specifications. Please reword this. provide reference link

Author: Sorry, I have to remove the `record` word in the heading. 

This section has the rules of conversion between XML and record.
https://github.com/ballerina-platform/module-ballerina-xmldata/pull/432/files#diff-0af47c0e4375c73ef387e816b3b5270631c76efdfef7a3cb92288fa0d919f176R86
